
5.2.8 Edit Servicing Step

The Edit Item action permits the user to update the status of the selected servicing step when there is a
need for an update or change.

Step 1: Click on [EbIT ITEM], located in the actions column of the main table.
Step 2: Complete all required fields.

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Filimg Loan Recording Borrowers Property Inspection Documents Notes Mortgage Release Exceptions Foreclosure Bankruptcy Disbursements Payoff Transactions Customer Service

B Servicing Step (EDIT MODE):

Active:

Figure 193: Edit Servicing Step (Demand Tracking — Partial Claim)

Step 3: Click [SAVE].
Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

The edited servicing step and all edited information will display in that timeline’s step.
5.2.9  Inactivate Servicing Step
The status of servicing steps may be changed to inactive if the user added them in error or if they are no

longer applicable for the loan.

Step 5: Click on the [Ep!T Ite] link for the desired servicing step.
Step 6: From the status column, select Inactive.

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Filing Loan Recording Borrowers Property Inspection Documents Notes Mortgage Release Exceptions Foreclosure Bankruptcy Disbursements

B Servicing Step (EDIT MODE)

Active: Inactive

Figure 194: Inactivate Servicing Step (Demand Tracking — Partial Claim)

Step 7: Click [SAVE].
Step 8: Onthe Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

This directs the user back to the Servicing tab. The selected servicing step will now display a grey
inactive button in the status column.

USER MANUAL | LSC.SERVICINGTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 48

@SMART

6 Using the Bankruptcy Module

6.1 Search

6.1.1 Searching for Loans with Bankruptcy History
Loans in the Bankruptcy module can be retrieved through various combinations of the search criteria
available on the Bankruptcy Search Screen.

Q Bankruptcy Search Screen
Search Database: SMART PRODUCTION DATABASE
FHA Case #

Loan Skey

Loan

Lender Name: Select a Lendes

Close Box #

Last 4 Digits of SSW

Bankruptcy Case

Note Type Selecta Note Type +

Result Headers:

Step 1:
Step 2:

* Borrower Name:

+ | Property Address:

7 | Property State:

+ | Bankruptcy Chapter:

+ | Assigned:

+ | Keyword:

Note Created By: Select a Note Crested By + Note Create Date >=

‘Loan Skay ) (= FHA Case No] (Loan No) (Loan Program | | * Bankruptcy Chapter) (= Case Number] (= Borrower Name) | = Borrower Address | = Onginal Prin Bal] ( * Bankruptcy Status

<——
Figure 195: Bankruptcy Search Screen

Click [BANKRUPTCY] from the top Navigation menu. Select [SEARCH] from the dropdown.
Select the search criteria from the displayed search fields in the Bankruptcy Search Screen.

Search Field Definition

FHA Case # FHA Case number for each loan

Loan Skey SMART system identification number unique to each loan
Loan # HUD identification number for each loan.

Lender Name Lender associated with the FHA Case

Close Box # Physical location of stored files

Last 4 digits of SSN The last four digits of the Borrower’s Social Security Number
Bankruptcy Case # Case filing number.

Note Type Type of note within the Notes tab of the Loan Record

Result Headers

Search criteria columns to be displayed in the Search Results table

Loan Program

Type of program associated with the loan

Loan Status

Current high-level status of the Loan (Open or Closed)

Loan State Detailed Status of the loan

Payment Plan Type of Payment Plan associated with the loan

Bankruptcy Status Shows whether the bankruptcy is Active or Inactive

Bankruptcy Step Bankruptcy actions that have been or need to be completed.

Bankruptcy Step Status Shows whether the bankruptcy step is Pending or Completed

Note Text Searches any word within the content of notes within the Notes tab of the Loan Record
Borrower Name Name of the Borrower

Property Address Address of the loan property

Property State State wherein the loan property is located

Bankruptcy Chapter Bankruptcy Chapter

Assigned Name of employee assigned to manage the loan through the bankruptcy.
Keyword Keyword search.

Note Created By

SMART User who created Notes in the Notes tab

Loan Create Date

Date that a loan was entered into the SMART system

Loan Close Date

Date that a loan was closed

Orig Prin Amt

Original principal amount of the loan in dollars (numerals only)

Bankruptcy Scheduled Date

Date bankruptcy step was created or added to a loan

Bankruptcy Completed Date

Date bankruptcy step was completed

USER MANUAL | LSC.SERVICINGTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 49


@®SMART
Search Field Definition

Attorney Name of Attorney or Law Firm handling the Bankruptcy process.
Note Create Date Date that the Note in the Notes tab was created
Table 6: Bankruptcy Search Fields

Step 3: Click [START SEARCH].

Figure 196: Bankruptcy Search Screen Buttons

Step 4: Click on either Loan Skey, FHA Case #, or Loan # to open the Loan Record.
Step 5: Once the Loan Record is open, you will be automatically directed to the Bankruptcy tab.

6.1.2 Searching for Loans without Bankruptcy History

Loans without bankruptcy history can be retrieved through various combinations of the search criteria
available on the Loan Search Screen.

Step 1: Click [LOAN] from the top Navigation menu. Select [SEARCH] from the dropdown.
Step 2: Select the search criteria from the displayed search fields in the Loan Search Screen.
Step 3: Click [START SEARCH].

Step 4: — Click on either Loan Skey, FHA Case #, or Loan # to open the Loan Record.

Step 5: Once the Loan Record is open, click on the Bankruptcy tab.

Note: You can also access loans with bankruptcy history through this process.

USER MANUAL | LSC.SERVICINGTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 50

@SMART

6.2 Bankruptcy Tab

Once the Loan record is open, the Bankruptcy Module is found on the Bankruptcy Tab. If mortgage
bankruptcy activity has been initiated for a Loan, the Bankruptcy tab in the Loan Record window will be
highlighted in light blue and will display the current bankruptcy activity of that Loan.

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Filing Loan Recording Borrowers Property Inspection Documents Notes Mortgage Release Exceptions Servicing ‘Foreclosure Disbursements Payoff Transactions Customer Service

@ Bankruptcy

B.Chapter 7 (A)

BiChapter 12 ()
Bi Add Chapter 7
Bi Add Chapter 11

o2re2018

FiAdd Chapter 12

BiAdd Chapter 13 o2162018

o2e2018

02162018

Figure 197: Bankruptcy Tab (Partial Claim)

. Exports the data from the table into an excel
Export to Excel Bi Excel
port to Exce (= spreadsheet.
Export to PDF Exports the data from the table into a .pdf file.
Print Displays the data from the table into a printable page.
Add Bankruptcy Adds a new Bankruptcy Step to the Bankruptcy
Steps Activity selected for the Loan.
Bankruptcy View the information for the Bankruptcy Activity
Management selected for the Loan.
View Notes Takes you to the Notes tab for the loan. See Section
3.2.8.
Search search Search and filter the page by specific keywords. The
main table will filter based off of the keyword search.

Table 7: Data Table Buttons

The following Bankruptcy Activities apply to all loan programs: Chapter 7, Chapter 11, Chapter 12, and
Chapter 13. HECM-Assigned, HECM-Insured, and SF Data Request is read-only and the user can not add
new Bankruptcy Activities for these loan programs.

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Filing Loan Recording Borrowers Property inspection Transactions Documents Notes Mortgage Release Exceptions Servicing Foreclosure [ESEMEEEMIN —Customer Service

@ Bankruptcy

Bankruptcy Activity
"

Aad Chapter 13

Figure 198: Bankruptcy Tab — No Bankruptcy Activity (235-Insured)
If there is no Bankruptcy Activity recorded for the loan, there will be no Data Table displayed on the

right side of the Bankruptcy tab (see Figure 9). The Bankruptcy Activity data table will display on the left
with all of the Bankruptcy Activities displayed with a blue plus mark (&).

USER MANUAL | LSC.SERVICINGTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 51

@SMART

6.2.1 View an Active Bankruptcy Activity

In the Bankruptcy Activity table, a green document icon (&) and (A) means that the Bankruptcy Activity is
Active. The active Bankruptcy type will open with its timeline displayed in the main data table. See
Table 3 for a description of the buttons that display on top of the main Data Table.

Bankruptcy Activity

GB Chapter 7 (A)

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Filing Loan Recording Borrowers Property Inspection Documents Notes Mortgage Release Exceptions Servicing Foreclosure Disber

@ Bankruptcy

moo
BiChapter 7 (A) _
rn — Bi Chapter 12 (I)
Add Chapter 7
Ada Chapter 11 Bane Add Chapter 7

FiAdd Chapter 12

Bi Add Chapter 13

Add Chapter 11

arec01e canecore Add Chapter 12

Add Chapter 13

Figure 199: Active Bankruptcy Activity
(Chapter 13 — Partial Claim)

6.2.2 View an Inactive Bankruptcy Activity

In the Bankruptcy Activity table, a grey document icon (8) and (1) means that the Bankruptcy Activity is
Inactive. The active Bankruptcy Activity will open with its timeline displayed in the main data table. See
Table 3 for a description of the buttons that display on top of the main Data Table.

Bankruptcy Activity
Sl Notes Morgner Reese Exceptions SermcngForeconue EE csoursemen

@ Bankruptcy B Chapter 7 (A)

B Chapter 7 (A) .
jaune & Chapter 12 (I)
AGE Cheoter tt Add Chapter 7

Add Chapter 12

Add Chapter 13

Add Chapter 11

oaez0re Add Chapter 12

Clam Recorded oan72018 o2r62018

Snowing 1107 of7 erties Add Chapter 13

Figure 200: Inactive Bankruptcy Activity
(Chapter 12 — Partial Claim)

6.2.3. Add New Bankruptcy Activity

In the Bankruptcy Activity table, a blue plus box (&) means add new Bankruptcy Activity.

Step1: Click on the blue plus box (&) for the Bankruptcy Activity.
Step 2: Inthe add screen for that Bankruptcy Activity, complete all the required fields.

USER MANUAL | LSC.SERVICINGTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 52

@SMART

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Filing Loan Recording Borrowers Property inspection Documents Notes Mortgage Release Exceptions Servicing ‘Foreclosure Disbursements Payoff Transactions Customer Service

B Bankruptcy Management (ADD MODE):

New Bankruptcy Management Information

Bankruptcy Chapter: Chapter 7 a
Bankruptcy Filed Date: 022172018 v

Status:

State:

Case No:

District:

vio Filed

Contested Action Concluded:

Figure 201: Add New Bankruptcy Activity (Chapter 7 — Partial Claim)

Step 3: Click [SAVE].
Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

Bankruptcy Activity

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Filing Loan Recording Borrowers Property inspection Documents Notes Mortgage Release Exceptions Servicing Foreclosure Disbursem

@ Bankruptcy G Chapter 7 (A)
DID So 6 Chapter 12 (1)

B.Chapter 7 (A)
Scheduled Date Actios Created By Create Date Changed By

BiChapter 12 (9

222018

Bcnapter7 0 & Chapter 7 (I)
Add Chapter 7 Bankrut

Baad Chapter 11

Add Chapter 7

Add Chapter 12

BiAdd Chapter 13
Proof of Cisim Recorded oarne2018

Add Chapter 11

o4za2018

Add Chapter 12

Figure 202: New Bankruptcy Activity Added Add Chapter 13
(Chapter 7 — Partial Claim)

The new Bankruptcy Activity will display in the Bankruptcy Activity Table located on the left and all
information and timeline inserted in the add screen will save in the main table and the Bankruptcy
Management screen. Any existing active bankruptcy activities will change from active to inactive.

An auto-note and auto-exception will generate if the user creates a new Chapter 7, Chapter 11, or
Chapter 13. An auto-note and auto-exception will not generate if the user creates a new Chapter 12.

Notes; HECM-Assigned, HECM-Insured, and SF Data Request are read-only and new Bankruptcy
Activities cannot be added for these loan programs.

6.2.4 Add Bankruptcy Steps

A predefined template of Bankruptcy Activity steps is generated for a loan when the user adds a
Bankruptcy Activity. Various additional Bankruptcy activity steps are also available and may be added as
needed.

Step1: Click on the [ADD BANKRUPTCY sess tein oe *
STEPS] button.
Step 2: Complete all required fields.

wi ed

Figure 203: Bankruptcy Step Options

USER MANUAL | LSC.SERVICINGTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 53

@SMART

Loan Summary Loan Detal_Loan Filing Loan Recording Borrowers Property Inspection Documents Notes MorigageRelease Exceptions Servicing Foreclosure EMEEIAIMI orsborseronts Payott Transactions Customer Se vce

B Bankruptcy Steps (ADD MODE):

Lo
Bankruptcy Step: Select a Bankruptcy Step *
status: aaave “
Scheduled Oate 20) v
Note
Brusxxvi¢ i && & Qe mF Es Svhieege ern
s Format 8 A Blea PiGMEOeQs

Figure 204: Add New Bankruptcy Step (Chapter 7 — Partial Claim)

Step 3: Click [SAVE].
Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

The new Bankruptcy step and all information inserted in the add screen will display in the correct
Bankruptcy Activity’s timeline. If the user inserts a note into the Note field, then a Bankruptcy note will
generate in the notes tab.

6.2.5 Bankruptcy Management
The Bankruptcy Management button offers a general summary of the Bankruptcy template and permits
the user to update the status of the selected Bankruptcy template.

Step 1: Click on the [BANKRUPTCY MANAGEMENT] button.
Step 2: Complete all required fields.

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Filing Loan Recoriing ‘Borrowers Property Inspection Documents Noles Mortgage Release Exceptions Servicing Foreclosure DOrabursements Payot! Transactions Customer Service

& Bankruptcy Management (EDIT MODE):

Bankruptcy Management For Chapter 7

Figure 205: Bankruptcy Management (Chapter 7 — Partial Claim)

Step 3: Click [SAVE].
Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

The new Bankruptcy management information will display in the main table and the Service

Management screen. If an edit is made to the Contested Action Concluded field, then an auto-note will
generate into the Notes Tab.

USER MANUAL | LSC.SERVICINGTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 54

@SMART

6.2.6 Inactivate Bankruptcy Activity
The status of Bankruptcy Activities may be changed to inactive if the user added them in error or if they
are no longer applicable for the loan.

Step 1: Select Bankruptcy Activity to inactivate and click on the [BANKRUPTCY MANAGEMENT]
button.
Step 2: From the status column, select “Inactive”.

Loan Summary Loan Detait Loan Filing Loan Recording Borrowers. Property Inspection Documents Notes Mortgage Release Exceptions Servicing Foreclosure =a Disbursements Payot Transactions Customer Service
& Bankruptcy Management (EDIT MODE):

Inactive

Figure 206: Bankruptcy Management (Chapter 7 — Partial Claim)

Step 3: Click [SAVE].
Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

The user will be directed back to the Bankruptcy tab. The selected Bankruptcy Activity will now display
with a grey document icon (8) and (I) in the name.

6.2.7. Reactivate Bankruptcy Activity
Step 1: Select Bankruptcy Activity to reactivate and click on the [BANKRUPTCY MANAGEMENT]
button.
Step 2: From the status column, select “Active”.

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Filing Loan Recording ‘Borrowers Property Inspection Documents Notes Mortgage Release Exceptions Servicing Foreclosure Disbursements Payoff ‘Transactions Customer Service
& Bankruptcy Management (EDIT MODE)

| cancet | | Status: Active

Bankruptcy Management For Chapter 7

Chapter:

Status:

trict:

Figure 207: Bankruptcy Management (Chapter 7 — Partial Claim)

Step 3: Click [SAVE].
Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

The user will be directed back to the Bankruptcy tab. The selected Bankruptcy Activity will now display
with a green document icon (&) and (A) in the name.

USER MANUAL | LSC.SERVICINGTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 55

@SMART

6.2.8 View Notes

To view notes, click on the [ViEW NoTEs] button. This will redirect the user to the Notes Tab within the
Loan Record.

Loan Summary Loan Detal_ Loan Fling Loan Recording Borrowers Property inspection Documents EER) mortgage Retease Exceptions Servicing Foreclosure Bankruptcy Ossbursements Payoff ‘Transactions Customer Service

&B Notes

| Bes | we
Not i No Created By Create Date Chan E a

te type gh importance

Auto Note

Figure 208: Notes Tab (Partial Claim)

To go back to the Bankruptcy Tab, click on [BACK TO BANKRUPTCY].

6.2.9 Edit an Original Bankruptcy Step

The Edit Item action permits the user to update the status of the selected Bankruptcy step when there is
a need for an update or change.

Step 1: Click on [EbIT ITEM], located in the actions column of the main table.
Step 2: Complete all required fields.

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Filing Loan Recording Borrowers Property Inspection Documents Notes Mortgage Release Exceptions Servicing Foreclosure Disbursements Payoff ‘Transactions Customer Service
B Bankruptcy Steps (EDIT MODE)

Figure 209: Edit Bankruptcy Step (Chapter 7 — Partial Claim)

Step 3: Click [SAVE].
Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

The edited Bankruptcy step and all edited information will display in that timeline’s step.
For a Chapter 7, Chapter 11, and Chapter 13 Bankruptcy, if the user saves the action date for any of the
original bankruptcy steps below, then an auto-note will generate.

e Proof of Claim Filed
e Proof of Claim Recorded

USER MANUAL | LSC.SERVICINGTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 56

@SMART

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Fling Loan Recoraing Borrowers Property nspection Documents EM ongaye Reiease Exceptions Servicing Foreclosure

Notes

Bankruptcy Disbursements Payoff Transactions. © Customer Service

Changed By

Creat
Ato Note Bankruptcy Fed 4

0272172018
12-4950 PM EST

Figure 210: Auto-Note Generated (Chapter 7 — Partial Claim)

For a Chapter 12 Bankruptcy, if the user saves the action date for any of the original bankruptcy steps
below, then an auto-note will generate.

e Bankruptcy Filed
e Proof of Claim Filed
e Proof of Claim Recorded

6.2.10 Edit a New Bankruptcy Step

Step 1: Click on [EbIT ITEM], located in the actions column of the main table.
Step 2: Complete all required fields.

Loon Summary Loan Detait Loan Filing Loan Recording‘ orrowers Property Inspection Documents Notes Mortgage Release Exceptions Servicing Foreclosure Disbursements Payoff Transactions Customer Service

® Bankruptcy Steps (EDIT MODE):

Bankruptcy Steps For Contested action

sta [acre

Scheduled Oate: { oaznaors v

Actual Date: 03022018

Figure 211: Edit Bankruptcy Step (Chapter 7 — Partial Claim)

Step 3: Click [SAVE].
Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

The edited Bankruptcy step and all edited information will display in that timeline’s step.

If the user saves the action date for any of the original bankruptcy steps below, then an auto-note will
generate.

e Bankruptcy Discharged

e Bankruptcy Dismissed

e Contested Action

e Ordered Missing Mortgage/DOT
e Write Off Requested/Approved

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Filing Loan Recording Borrowers Property inspection Documents [ADELE Mortgage Release Exceptions == Servicing Foreclosure Bankruptcy Disbursements Payoff ~—Transactions. Customer Service

& Notes

Add Note

‘to Note Contested Acton 22120

0129.37 PM EST

Figure 212: Auto-Note Generated (Chapter 7 — Partial Claim)

USER MANUAL | LSC.SERVICINGTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 57

@SMART

If the user saves the action date for any of the new bankruptcy steps below, then an auto-exception will
generate.

e Bankruptcy Discharged

e Bankruptcy Dismissed

e Contested Action

Loan Summary Loan Detail Loan Filing Loan Recording ‘Borrowers Property Inspection Documents Notes Mortgage Release ERIM Serving Foreclosure Gankrupicy Disbursements Payot ‘Transactions Customer Service

A Exceptions

em Jos To]

Figure 213: Auto-Exception Generated (Chapter 7 — Partial Claim)

6.2.11 Inactivate Bankruptcy Step

The status of Bankruptcy steps may be changed to inactive if the user added them in error or if they are
no longer applicable for the loan.

Step 1: Click on the [EpiT Ite] link for the desired Bankruptcy step.
Step 2: From the status column, select Inactive.

Loan Summary LoanDetait_ Loan Fiting 