 Data REQUEST) ..............cccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 57
View Loan Recording (SF Data REQUGSt) .............ccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 57
View Borrowers (SF Data REQUEST) ............ccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 57
View Property Inspection (SF Data REQU@St) ............ccccccceeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 58
View Transactions (SF Data REQUGSt) ............cccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 58
View Documents (SF Data REQUGSt)............ccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 58
View Notes (SF Data REQUEST) .............ccccccceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 58
View Mortgage Release (SF Data REQUEST) .............ccccccceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 59
View Exceptions (SF Data REQU@St) .............ccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 59
View Servicing (SF Data REQUGSt).............ccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 59
View Foreclosure (SF Data REQUEST) .............ccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 59
View Bankruptcy (SF Data REQUGSt) ............ccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 59
View Customer Service (SF Data REQUEST) .............ccccccececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 60
Servicing Search SCrEON........cccccccccccccsceesseseeeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseaeeseeeeeeeessaaaaaeeeeeeseesaaa 61
Servicing Search Screen BUttONS ..........ccccccccccccccceaessseeeccececsaaeesseeeceeeesseseeseeeeeeeesauaaseeeeeeeeesaaa 62
Servicing Tab (Partial Claim) ...........:ccccccssssssssssssessssssssesessessseesseeceeeesesseeseesssseesssesssessssesseaaaes 63
Active Servicing Activity (Payoff Request — Partial Claim)...............cccccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 63
Active Servicing Activity (Payoff Request — Partial Claim)...............cccccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 64
Service Management (Payoff Request — Partial Claim)............:c::cssssssssssssssssssssesssssssessssseeeees 64
Ticket Search SCrECM ....cccccccccccccceeeeee cece cece cece ee ee eee e eee e eee EEE EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEES 65

SMART USER MANUAL | HUD.CSHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | v

@SMART

Figure 167: Customer Service MOdUule ..........cccccccsssssssseccececcsaaeeseeeeeeeeesaaeeeseeeeeeeeesaaeesseeeeeeeessaaaaeseeeeeeeeaaaa 67
Figure 168: View/Edit Ticket Detail ...........cccccccccccccsssssssececccececsessssceeceeceeeesssaeeeeeecececeesntseeeeeeesesesstsaseeeeess 67
Figure 169: Ticket Detail - Ticket RESOIUTION.............ccccccccccccsessseeeeeeeeeesaaeseeeeeeeeeeesaeeesseseeeeeessaaaeeeeseeeeeeaaa 68
Figure 170: View Call LOG ..........cccccccccccssssssseeeceeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeeeseeeeeeessaaaasseseeeeeeeaaa 68
Figure 171: Create New Call LOg ..........ccccccccccccccecceeessseeeeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaaeeesseeeeeeesaaaaaseeeeeeeeseaaa 68
Figure 172: View Ticket ACtion.........cccccccssssscccccceceeeeesseeeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeeeeeessseeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeesseeeeeeessauaaaseeeeeeeseaaa 69
Figure 173: Create NEW ACTION ............cccccccssseeccceeeeecccaeseccceaeeeeesseeeeeesseeseessseueeesaeeeeeessaeeessaaueeesaueseeesaaages 69
Figure 174: View Ticket ACtion.........ccccccsssssceccccceceeesseeeeeeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeesseeeeeeessaaaaaeeeeeeeeeeaaa 69
Figure 175: VieW NOteS..........ccccccssescccceeescccceeeeeeaeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeesseeeeeseeusessaeeseeesaeuseeesaaseesaueeeessaaages 70
FiSUre 176: Add NOtC.......cccccccesesccccccceeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeesseeeeeeesaaaaeaeseeeeeseaaa 70
Figure 177: VieW DOCUMENNS ..........cccccseescccceeeeecceeeeeeeeaeeeeeeaeeeeeesseeeeeesseeeeeeseeueeesaeseeeessaseessuauseesauaseeesaaases 70
Figure 178: Borrower HiStOry..........cccccssecccccsseccccseeeecccaeeseceeseeeeeeseeeeeeseuseessseueeesaeeeeeesseeeeseeeuseesauseeesaaages 71
Figure 179: View/Edit Ticket Detail ...........cccccccccccccssssssssceeeceeessssssseeeceeceecessssaseeececeeeeeesaaeeeeececesessnsaaeeeeess 71
Figure 180: Create N@W Ticket ..........ccccccssessccccceccseeeeseeeeeeeeeeaseeeeeeeeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeeeeeesaseessseeeeeeesaaaaeaseeseeeeseaea 72
Figure 181: Customer Service MOdUule ..........cccccccssssssseecceceecaeseesseeeeeceesaaeeeeeeeeeeeessaaeesseeeeseeessaaaeeeseeeeeseaaa 73
Figure 182: Create N@W Ticket ..........cccccssssssccccccceeeeeeseeeeeeeeessseeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeesseeeeeeessaaaaseeseeeeeeeaaa 73
Figure 183: Navigation M@Nu LINKS .............cccccccccssssssseecceceeeaeeesseeeeeeeesaaessseeeeeeeeesaaeeseeeeeeeeessaaaeseeeseeeeeaaaa 74
Figure 184: Example User Information (Edit Mode) ...........::cccsssssssssssssesssessessseesessessessessesssesseesssseeseseaes 74
Figure 185: Example User Role Options ............cccssssssseecceceeccaeeseseeceeeeesaaeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeesseeeeeeeesaaaeseseeeeeeeaaa 74
Figure 186: Landing PAage...........ccccccccccssssssseeeceeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeesseeeeeeesaaaaeseeseeeeeeeaaa 75
Figure 187: Tech Support Tab Open .........cccccccccccccsssssseecceceeeaseeseseeeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeesssseeeeeessaaaasseseeeeeeeaea 75
Figure 188: Tech Support POPUP ..........cccccccccccccccceeesseeeeeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeseeeeeeeeeesaeeeesseeeeeeessaauaaeeeeeeeeseaaa 75
Figure 189: PopUp Chat Window ...........ccccccccccccecceessseeeeeeeeeeaeeeseeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeesseeeeesessaaaaasesseeeeseaaa 76

Tables

Table 1: Loan Search Fields ...........cccccccssseccccesecceceesecceceeeececeueccecauseceesaeseceesueeceeeaeeceeseuueceesueeceesaueeeesagasss 10
Table 2: Data Table BUttOns............ccccccccccccessecceceesecceceeeececsueeccecaueceesaueceesueeeceeauuceesueeeceseugeeeesauaeeeeeugasss 12
Table 3: Servicing Search Fields ...........ccccessscccccccceeessseeeeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeasseeseeeeessaaeaaseeeseeeesaaa 61
Table 4: Data Table BUttOns............cccccccccccccesecceceesecceceeeececeueeccecaueccecaueeceesueueeesauaeceesueecessugceeseueeeesugasss 63
Table 5: Ticket Search Fields ...........cccccccccccccssecccceesecceceeeececeuecceceueceesueseceeaueeecesaueucessueueeessugeeeesauaeeeeeagasss 66

SMART USER MANUAL | HUD.CSHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | vi

@®SMART

Document History

Version Date

Description
Original release.

Updated release.

No changes made.

Updated release; Added PMM, Cash
Management, CRM, etc.

1.0 3/12/2018

1.34.0 | 12/14/2018
1.34.0 06/10/2019
1.43.0 | 12/20/2019
1.43.0 06/02/2020

No changes made.

SMART USER MANUAL | HUD.CSHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | vii


@SMART

1 Solution Summary

This manual is designed to guide Lenders through the use of the Single-Family Mortgage Asset Recovery
Technology (SMART) System.

1.1 Features

The Single-Family Mortgage Asset Recovery Technology (SMART) System is comprised of individual
modules designed to assist the user in searching for specific loan information and performing related
functions. The modules currently available include the following:

Loan Module: Query and review loan information at a detailed level, add new loan records to
the system, and edit existing loan information.

Servicing Module: Assign mortgage servicing templates to individual loans, track the status of
each servicing template, and generate the corresponding servicing forms and letters.
Bankruptcy Module: Maintain, track, and edit bankruptcy information for individual loan
records.

Foreclosure Module: Manage loan records in the foreclosure process. Module provides a
timeline of the required foreclosure steps and tracks the scheduled foreclosure activity vs. the
completed foreclosure activity.

Mortgage Release Module: Initiate the loan release process for satisfied loans, track the release
status, and generate the corresponding release forms and letters.

Cash Management Module: Track and manage incoming payments from Pay.Gov, submit
disbursement checks, search for transactions and review the TROR and Trial Balance reports.
Customer Service Module: Create, view, and manage tickets. Create and edit call logs and ticket
actions.

Maintenance Module: Manage user account, reset user passwords, and update ticket round
robin.

SMART USER MANUAL | HUD.CSHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 1

@SMART

2 Getting Started

2.1 Software Version
To access the SMART web application, open your web browser and go to: https://smart.hudnsc.org.

2.2 Solution Requirements
Users must have the following to use the SMART System:
e Screen Resolution 1920x1080 optimal
e =Internet Connection
e Web Browser (IE, Chrome, Firefox)
e Avalid user name, email address, and password
e Adobe Acrobat Reader or other .pdf reader (recommended)

Users may not use the following to access the SMART System:
e Mobile device with a screen size of 760px or less

As a web-based application, SMART is accessed through a web browser, and is not “installed” onto any
user’s computer.

2.3 Logging On
Once your SMART user profile has been created and approved, you may begin using the site. To Login,
follow the steps outlined below.

Step1: Toaccess the SMART web application, open your web browser and go to

https://smart.hudnsc.org.

Password

Unauthorized Access Warning

Figure 1: Landing Page

Step 2: Input your User Name. Input your Password. @®SMART
Step 3: Click [LOGIN]. A pop-up will appear to initiate
setting up Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). What type of device are you adding?
Click [START SETUP]. © Moniie phone recoumencen
Landline
Step 4: Select Mobile Phone or Landline and click
[CONTINUE].

Figure 2: MFA Phone Set-Up

SMART USER MANUAL | HUD.CSHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 2

@®SMART

Step 5: Enter your phone number, click the box to verify the phone number, and click [CONTINUE].

®SMART

Enter your phone number

United States A

+41

ex: (201) 234-5678
[2] You entered [EEN 's this the correct number?

Figure 3: MFA Phone Set Up

Step6: Verify the ownership of your phone. To get a phone call verification, select [CALL ME]. To
get a text verification, select [TEXT ME]. Both options will provide you with a 6-digit code.
Enter in the code and click [VERIFY]. When verified, click [CONTINUE].

@®SMART

Verify Ownership of

1. We can call or text you with a verification code.

} came | °r Textsent

2. Enter your 6-digit code:

“_ ¥
| sack

Figure 4: MFA Phone Verification

Step 7: Verify your settings on the My Settings & Devices page then click [CONTINUE TO LOGIN].

@®SMART

a

bx. 867539

(Q_ Remember me for 60 days

@SMART (=!

Call Me

Enter a Passcode

(4 Remember me for 60 days

Enrollment successful! This is the Duo login prompt that you'll normally
see when logging in.

Enter a passcode from a text.

Dismiss Dismiss Text me new codes

Figure 5: Multi-Factor Authentication

Note! When you have checked the [REMEMBER ME FOR 60 DAyYs] checkbox, this bypasses the 2 factor log in for 60 days.

SMART USER MANUAL | HUD.CSHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 3

@SMART

Step 8: Select either [CALL ME] or [ENTER A PASSCODE].

Step 9: Selecting [CALL ME] will prompt the system to call your phone. Follow the instructions in
the phone call and you will be redirected to your default page.

Step 10: Select [ENTER A PASSCODE] and click on [TEXT ME NEw CobEs] at the bottom. This will prompt
the system to send a text message to your phone containing a 6-digit code. Enter in the
code and click log in. You will be redirected to your default page, logging you in.

The first time you log in you will be asked to reset your password and input three Security Questions.

@SMART

O First Time Password Reset
— : a

© Setting Up Security Questions

Securty Question 1 Select One x|

Answer 1

secur Onsen 3 Senct Oe *]

Figure 6: Setting up Security Questions Page

Enter in a new password and all three questions and answers and click [UPDATE]. After clicking update,
you will be taken to your default page.

2.4 Solution Menu

After you have successfully logged into SMART your default page is the My Dashboard Page.

Bi My Tickets
moo
SS Eas eee eee eee =
= = SSS ———
22
Showing 1 to 1 of 1 entries _— | Next
&B My PIN Tickets
moe -
——— = Ee
— - ——— —
om
ws . — —
woe
ss — fE a maar ==
com ae
= — —
coma
Showing 1 t0 4 of 4 entries vious + | Next

Figure 7: Default Page
From the Dashboard page you can access every point in the site needed via the Top Navigation Menu.

From left to right, the options are: My Dashboard, Loan, Servicing, Customer Service, User Information,
and Role.

SMART USER MANUAL | HUD.CSHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 4

@SMART

2.4.1. My Dashboard

The default page you come to after you have logged into SMART is the [My DASHBOARD] page. Under the
tab [My DASHBOARD] you have two options: My Tickets and Action List.

2.4.2 Loan

The [LOAN] tab directs the user to the Loan Module in SMART. Here you have one option: Search.

2.4.3. Servicing

The [SERVICING] tab directs the user to the Servicing Module. Here you have one option: Search.

2.4.4 Customer Service
The [CUSTOMER SERVICE] tab directs the user to the Customer Service Module. Here you have two
options: Ticket Search and Create New Ticket.

2.4.5 User Information and Roles

Select your user name to view and update your personal identification and contact information. You
may also change your password and security questions. From the [ROLE] drop-down menu, select the
role in which to view the SMART System.

2.5 Changing Password
To comply with security policies requiring periodic modification to all access passwords, SMART includes
the Change Password functionality on the My Account page. Follow the steps below to change your

current passwo rd.

Step 2: Scroll down the User Information (Edit Mode) page to the Manage Password header.

Step1: From the top Navigation Menu, click your User Name.

Manage Password

ae
Figure 8: Manage Password
Step 3: Input your current password. Password must contain at least:
Step 4: Input your new password.
~ Twelve alphanumeric characters
. ~ One special character
Step5: Re-enter your new password to confirm accuracy. One uppercase leller
Y One lowercase letter
~ One number

Step 6: Click [SAVE] at the bottom of the page.

The user is required to change their password every 30 days. The system maintains a password history,
so that 24 passwords cannot be reused.

SMART USER MANUAL | HUD.CSHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 |5

@SMART

If the user logs into SMART after their password is expired between 30 days and 90 days from their last
password change, they will be redirected to change their password. If the user has not logged on for 90
days, their account will be disabled. In order to reactivate their account, they will need to contact the
Help Desk. For information on how to contact the Help Desk, see Section 14: Getting Help.

2.5.1 Forgot Password (Recover Password)
To retrieve a lost password, go to the SMART Login Page and click [FORGOT PASsSworD].

@SMART

Username

Password

_ Unauthorized Access Warning Password Reset
This warning banner provides privacy and security notices consistent with
applicable federal laws, directives, and other federal guidance for accessing this

Government system, which includes all devices/storage media attached to this

system. This system is provided for Government-authorized use only.
Unauthorized or improper use of this system is prohibited and may result in
disciplinary action and/or civil and criminal penalties. At any time, and for any
lawful Government purpose, the government may monitor, record, and audit
your system usage and/or intercept, search and seize any communication or
data transiting or stored on this system. Therefore, you have no reasonable
expectation of privacy. Any communication or data transiting or stored on this
system may be disclosed or used for any lawful Government purpose.

Figure 9: Login Page — Forgot Password Figure 10. Forgot Password Page

Work Email Address

The user is prompted to input a valid email address and select one security challenge question. Enter in
the work email address and click [SUBMIT].

If the user is registered to access SMART, an email is sent to their validated email address containing a

temporary password to use to access their account. If the user is not registered, the user is prompted to
complete the registration process.

2.6 Exit Solution

To end your SMART session, click [LOGOUT]. Be sure to [UPDATE] any work prior to exiting the system.

SMART USER MANUAL | HUD.CSHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 6

@SMART
3 Using My Dashboard
3.1 My Tickets

After you have successfully logged into SMART your default page is the My Dashboard Page. The default
tab of My Dashboard is the My Tickets Dashboard.

=
& My Tickets
Ticket No FHA Case No Pron cal e Reason FC Sate Date ricer Ni orrower Mame Borrower Address Agi Cres
250378 Low (601 PROGRAM (ACDVASSET OR NOTE SALE m o7v1072019
10:43:48 AM

‘Showing 1 to 1 of 1 entries

&B My PIN Tickets

FHA Case No Prioaity Caller Name Reason Creat

Ticket No

signee

@ est007 1172572019
01:44:38 PM
1912872019
01:44:42 PM

111252019
045627 PM

112512019
01:44:53 PM

Figure 11: My Tickets Dashboard

To open a Customer Service Ticket Record, click on the ticket number. To go back to the My Tickets
page, click on the [BACK TO My TICKETS] button.

If you have never pinned a ticket to the My Tickets tab of My Dashboard, then you will only see the Top
20 Most Recent Tickets. If you have pinned a loan to the My Tickets tab, then you will see all the loans
you have pinned and the Top 20 Most Recent Tickets.

3.1.1 Pin Ticket to My Tickets Dashboard

Step1: Identify a ticket you would like to pin to the My Tickets Dashboard.
Step 2: Once you have identified a ticket you would like to pin, open that ticket.
Step 3: Click [PINTO DASHBOARD] button located under the “Ticket Information (Edit Mode)” title.

4&4 Customer Service - Ticket No. 853427

Ticket No. callLog Ticket Action Notes Documents,

‘Ticket 853427 (A) (=) B Ticket Information (EDIT MODE)

Figure 12: Pin to Dashboard (Ticket Record)

Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

Once you have pinned a ticket it will display on the My Tickets Dashboard. If the ticket has multiple
property inspection addresses, then the multiple Ticket Records tied to that Ticket Skey will display in
the My Tickets Dashboard.

SMART USER MANUAL | HUD.CSHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 7

@SMART

3.1.2 — Unpin Tickets from My Tickets Dashboard
Step 1: Identify a ticket you would like to unpin to the My Tickets Dashboard.
Step 2: Once you have identified a ticket you would like to unpin, open that ticket.
Step 3: — Click [UNPIN FROM DASHBOARD] button located under the “Ticket Information (Edit Mode)”

43+ Customer Service - Ticket No. 853427
a0 SS
concog BRBTSRIY icseracton notes documents
Test OUT OK-) B Ticket Information (EDIT MODE)
n

FHA Case # a VY Loan Program: ACA Compliance A | Loans:

Figure 13: Unpin from Dashboard (Ticket Record)
Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].
Once you have unpinned a ticket it will no longer display in the My Tickets Dashboard. If the ticket has

multiple property inspection addresses, then the multiple Ticket Records tied to that Ticket Skey will no
longer display in the My Tickets Dashboard.

SMART USER MANUAL | HUD.CSHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 8

@SMART

3.2 Action List

The Action List displays all tickets that require HUD action. To open the Action List, click [My
DASHBOARD] from the top Navigation menu and select [ACTION List] from the dropdown. To display the
tickets requiring action, you will need to Filter the Action List (see below).

TREC Me Acton 