eceeeesaaaeaeceeeeeeeesaaaececeeeeeeesaaaececeeeeeesaaaaaececeseseeuaaeaeeeeeees 61
VIEW BOrrowerr HiStOLy...........cccccccccecececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeees 61
View/Edit Ticket Detail... icccceeescsecccccecsessssececceecessessnaececcescecsensaeceecseceessnneaeeeeecessesenteaeesesees 61
View/Edit Ticket Detail... icccceeescsecccccecsessssececceecessessnaececcescecsensaeceecseceessnneaeeeeecessesenteaeesesees 62
Edit Closed Ticket (NON_SYS) ........cccccccssssceceessececeesececeesaececeessececeesaeeecsessececsesseeecsesaececeesaeeeeseaaes 62
Edit Close Ticket (SYS) ........ccccscccccsssccccssssececsessececeesaececsesaeeecsesseeecsesseeeceessececeesaececsesaeeeceesaeeeeseaaes 63
Merge Tickets ......ccccccccccccssssssssecccecsssesseaeeeeeceeeesesseaeeececsseeesaeaeeeeseeseesaeaeaeeeeeceesesaaaeseeseseesseaaaeass 63

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | v

@SMART

Figure 161: Merged Tickets............ccccsscccccecessessnseceeececsssesenaeseeeeseeseeseeaeeeeecesesseaeaeeeeecsseeseaaeaeeeesesssesaaaeaeeeesess 63
Figure 162: Create NOW TiCket.........ccccccccccccsssssssececececsssessnaeeeeeeseesseaeaeeeeeeeseeseaeaeeeseceseeseaaeseeeesesseeeaaeaeeeeeens 64
Figure 163: Customer Service MOUIC............:cccccccccecsssessnececececsesesseaeeececeseeseaaaeeesecsseeseaasaeeeeeessseseaaeaeeeesens 65
Figure 164: Create N@W TiCket........ccccccccccccsssssssscecececessesenaeseeeescesseseaeeeeeeeseeseaeaeeesecsseeseeaeaeeeesesseeseaaeaeeeeeens 65
Figure 165: Reports — Customer Service DaShbOard .........ccccccccccsssssssesecececessssneaeeeeecessesennsaeeeeeesseessnneseeeesens 66
Figure 166: Generate Report in either Excel, PDF, Or HTM. ..........cccsssccccccesessesnaeceeecessesssaeeeeeesssessaeaeeeeeens 66
Figure 167: Reports — Director Reports DaShboard.........cccccccccscssssssssesecececessesnsaeeeeeceeseseasseeeeeesssessseaeeeesens 66
Figure 168: Reports — Servicing/Release Reports Dashboard ..........cs:cccsscesssecssssecseceesceceeseecsseeeesaeeeeseeeees 67
Figure 169: Navigation M@Nu LiNKS.............ccccssssscccececessessnaeeeceeeceesesenaeeeeecesesseeaaeeeeecesseseaaeaeeeesessseseaaeaeeeesees 68
Figure 170: Example User Information (Edit MOde) ............cccccccesceceessceceesssseeecssseececssssececssssececessaeeeessaaeees 68
Figure 171: Example User Role Options..........ccccccccccccsssessnsesecececessesseaeeeeeceesesesneaeeeeecssseseeasaeeeeeesssessaeaeeeesens 68
Figure 172: Ticket ROUNC RODIN .........c.ccccccccsssssssececeeecessessaaeeececscesseuaesececesesseeaeaeeeeecsseeseaaeaeeeeeesseeseaaeaeeeesens 69
Figure 173: Maintenance Roundrobin (Edit MOde).............c:ccccccssseceessscececssssececssseeceessesececssesececeesaeesesssaeees 69
Figure 174: Maintenance Roundrobin (Add Modle)............ssscccecsssseceesssceceessssececssseececsnssececsseseeeesssaeesessaaeees 70
Figure 175: Landing Page ...........cccccssssssccececesseseeeeeeeecesseseeaeseeeeeeeseeseaeeeeeeeseesesaeaeeeseceseeseaaeaeeeseessseeaaeaeeeeeens 71
Figure 176: Tech Support Tab Open ..........cccccsessccceceesssessnaeeecececessesenaeeeeecesesseaaaeeeeecsseeeaaeaeeeeeessseseaaeaeeeeeess 71
Figure 177: Tech SUPPOrt POPUP... cecccesssssecececeeessesseaeeeceescessesnaeeececeseeseaeaeeesecesseseaaeaeeeeeeesensaaeaeeeeeess 71
Figure 178: PopUp Chat WindOW...........cccccccssssssssccececessesenaeeeeeeseessesanaeeeeeceseeseaeaeeeeeceseeseaaeaeeeesesseesaaeaeeeesens 72

Tables

Table 1: Disposition Types .0........cccccessssccccecessessseceeeeecessesneaeeeeeeeceeseseaaeeeeeeeseeseeaeaeeeeecesseseaaaaeeeeeeeseesaaaeaeeeesens 11
Table 2: Loan Search Fields ............ccccsscccccecessssenneceeeeecsssesneaeeeeeescesseseaaeeeeeeesesesaeaeeeeecesseseaaaaeeeeeceseeseaaeaeeeesens 15
Table 3: Data Table Buttons ...........ccccccccccccessssssseceeeeecessesseaeeeeeeeeesseseaaeseeeessesseeaeaeeeeeceseeseasaaeeeeseeseeeaaeaeeeegens 17
Table 4: Ticket Search Fields ...........ccccscccccccessssssseceeeeecssseseeaeeeeeeecesseseaaeeeeeeeseeeeaeaeeeeeseseesesaaaeeeeeessseseaaeaeeeesens 57

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | vi

Document History

@®SMART

Version Date

Author Description
Original release.

Updated release.

1.0 3/12/2018
1.34.0 | 12/14/2018
1.34.0 06/10/2019

No changes made.

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | vii

@SMART

1 Solution Summary

This manual is designed to guide Lenders through the use of the Single-Family Mortgage Asset Recovery
Technology (SMART) System.

1.1 Features

The Single-Family Mortgage Asset Recovery Technology (SMART) System is comprised of individual
modules designed to assist the user in searching for specific loan information and performing related
functions. The modules currently available include the following:

Loan Module: Query and review loan information at a detailed level, add new loan records to
the system, and edit existing loan information.

Servicing Module: Assign mortgage servicing templates to individual loans, track the status of
each servicing template, and generate the corresponding servicing forms and letters.
Bankruptcy Module: Maintain, track, and edit bankruptcy information for individual loan
records.

Foreclosure Module: Manage loan records in the foreclosure process. Module provides a
timeline of the required foreclosure steps and tracks the scheduled foreclosure activity vs. the
completed foreclosure activity.

Mortgage Release Module: Initiate the loan release process for satisfied loans, track the release
status, and generate the corresponding release forms and letters.

Customer Service Module: Create, view, and manage tickets. Create and edit call logs and ticket
actions.

Maintenance Module: Manage user account, reset user passwords, and update ticket round
robin.

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 1

@SMART

2 Getting Started

2.1 Software Version
To access the SMART web application, open your web browser and go to: https://smart.hudnsc.org.

2.2 Solution Requirements
Users must have the following to use the SMART System:
e Screen Resolution 1920x1080 optimal
e Internet Connection
e Web Browser (IE, Chrome, Firefox)
e Avalid user name, email address, and password
e Adobe Acrobat Reader or other .pdf reader (recommended)

Users may not use the following to access the SMART System:
e Mobile device with a screen size of 760px or less

As a web-based application, SMART is accessed through a web browser, and is not “installed” onto any
user’s computer.

2.3 Logging On
Once your SMART user profile has been created and approved, you may begin using the site. To Login,
follow the steps outlined below.

Step1: To access the SMART web application, open your web browser and go to

https://smart.hudnsc.org.

SMART a

Password

Unauthorized Access Warning

Figure 1: Landing Page

Step 2: Input your User Name. Input your Password. @®SMART
Step 3: Click [LOGIN]. A pop-up will appear to initiate
setting up Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). What type of device are you adding?
Click [START SETUP]. © Moniie phone recoumencen
Landline
Step 4: Select Mobile Phone or Landline and click
[CONTINUE].

Figure 2: MFA Phone Set-Up

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 2

SMART

Step 5: Enter your phone number, click the box to verify the phone number, and click [CONTINUE].

®SMART

Enter your phone number

United States A

ex: (201) 234-5678

2] You entered [MMs this tne correct number?

+41

Figure 3: MFA Phone Set Up

Step 6: Verify the ownership of your phone. To get a phone call verification, select [CALL ME]. To
get a text verification, select [TEXT ME]. Both options will provide you with a 6-digit code.
Enter in the code and click [VERIFY]. When verified, click [CONTINUE].

@SMART
Verify Ownership of PY

1. We can call or text you with a verification code.

} came | °r Textsent

2. Enter your 6-digit code:

“oe | very | ¥
EI

Figure 4: MFA Phone Verification

Step 7: Verify your settings on the My Settings & Devices page then click [CONTINUE TO LOGIN].

@®SMART

a

bx. 867539

(Remember me for 60 days

@®SMART

Enter a Passcode

(¥) Remember me for 60 days

Enrollment successful! This is the Duo login prompt that you'll normally
see when logging in.

Dismiss

Figure 5: Multi-Factor Authentication

Enter a passcode from a text.

Dismiss Text me new codes

Note; When you have checked the [REMEMBER ME FOR 60 Days] checkbox, this bypasses the 2 factor log in for 60 days.

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 3

®SMART

Step 8: Select either [CALL ME] or [ENTER A PASSCODE].

Step 9: Selecting [CALL ME] will prompt the system to call your phone. Follow the instructions in
the phone call and you will be redirected to your default page.

Step 10: Select [ENTER A PASSCODE] and click on [TExT ME New CobeEs] at the bottom. This will prompt
the system to send a text message to your phone containing a 6-digit code. Enter in the
code and click log in. You will be redirected to your default page, logging you in.

The first time you log in you will be asked to reset your password and input three Security Questions.

@SMART

O First Time Password Reset

© Setting Up Security Questions

Figure 6: Setting up Security Questions Page

Enter in a new password and all three questions and answers and click [UPDATE]. After clicking update,
you will be taken to your default page.

2.4 Solution Menu

After you have successfully logged into SMART your default page is the My Dashboard Page.

B Role: Isc.csteamlead + | 6% Maintenance ~

Figure 7: Default Page

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 4

@SMART

From the Dashboard page you can access every point in the site needed via the Top Navigation Menu.
From left to right, the options are: My Dashboard, Loan, Customer Service, Reports, User Information,
Role, and Maintenance.

2.4.1. My Dashboard

The default page you come to after you have logged into SMART is the [My DASHBOARD] page. Under the
tab [My DASHBOARD] you have three options: My Tickets, LSC Inbox, and Supervisor Inbox.

2.4.2. Loan

The [LOAN] tab directs the user to the Loan Module in SMART. Here you have one option: Search.

2.4.3. Customer Service
The [CUSTOMER SERVICE] tab directs the user to the Customer Service Module. Here you have two
options: Ticket Search and Create New Ticket.

2.4.4 Reports

Under [REPORTS] you have three options: Customer Service, Director Reports, and Servicing/Release
Reports.

2.4.5 User Information
Select your user name to view and update your personal identification and contact information. You
may also change your password and security questions.

2.4.6 Role

From the [ROLE] drop-down menu, select the role in which to view the SMART System.

2.4.7. Maintenance

The [MAINTENANCE] tab directs the user to the Maintenance Module. Here you have one option: Ticket
Round Robin.

2.5 Changing Password
To comply with security policies requiring periodic modification to all access passwords, SMART includes
the Change Password functionality on the My Account page. Follow the steps below to change your

current passwo rd.

Step 2: Scroll down the User Information (Edit Mode) page to the Manage Password header.

Step 1: From the top Navigation Menu, click your User Name.

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 5

C

®SMART

Manage Password:

New Password:

Confirm Password:

Figure 8: Manage Password

Step 3: Input your current password. Note:
Password must contain at least:

Step 4: Input your new password.

~ Twelve alphanumeric characters
~v One special character

~ One uppercase letter

v One lowercase letter

Step 6: Click [SAVE] at the bottom of the page. V' One number

Step 5: Re-enter your new password to confirm accuracy.

The user is required to change their password every 30 days. The system maintains a password history,
so that 24 passwords cannot be reused.

If the user logs into SMART after their password is expired between 30 days and 90 days from their last
password change, they will be redirected to change their password. If the user has not logged on for 90
days, their account will be disabled. In order to reactivate their account, they will need to contact the
Help Desk. For information on how to contact the Help Desk, see Section 14: Getting Help.

2.5.1 Forgot Password (Recover Password)
To retrieve a lost password, go to the SMART Login Page and click [FORGOT PASsworD].

@SMART

Username

Password

_ Unauthorized Access Warning Password Reset

This warning banner provides privacy and security notices consistent with
applicable federal laws, directives, and other federal guidance for accessing this |

Work Email Address

Government system, which includes all devices/storage media attached to this
system. This system is provided for Government-authorized use only.
Unauthorized or improper use of this system is prohibited and may result in
disciplinary action and/or civil and criminal penalties. At any time, and for any
lawful Government purpose, the government may monitor, record, and audit
your system usage and/or intercept, search and seize any communication or

data transiting or stored on this system. Therefore, you have no reasonable pose

expectation of privacy. Any communication or data transiting or stored on this
system may be disclosed or used for any lawful Government purpose.

Forgot Password Login

Figure 9: Login Page — Forgot Password Figure 10. Forgot Password Page

The user is prompted to input a valid email address and select one security challenge question. Enter in
the work email address and click [SUBMIT].

If the user is registered to access SMART, an email is sent to their validated email address containing a

temporary password to use to access their account. If the user is not registered, the user is prompted to
complete the registration process.

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 6

@SMART

2.6 Exit Solution

To end your SMART session, click [LOGOUT]. Be sure to [UPDATE] any work prior to exiting the system.

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 7

®SMART

3 Using My Dashboard

3.1 My Tickets

After you have successfully logged into SMART your default page is the My Dashboard Page. The default
tab of My Dashboard is the My Tickets Dashboard.

EB My PIN Tickets

moc

Figure 11: My Tickets Dashboard

To open a Customer Service Ticket Record, click on the ticket number. To go back to the My Tickets
page, click on the “Back to My Tickets Tab” button.

If you have never pinned a ticket to the My Tickets tab of My Dashboard, then you will only see the Top
20 Most Recent Tickets. If you have pinned a loan to the My Tickets tab, then you will see all the loans
you have pinned and the Top 20 Most Recent Tickets.

3.1.1 Pin Ticket to My Tickets Dashboard

Step 1: Identify a ticket you would like to pin to the My Tickets Dashboard.
Step 2: Once you have identified a ticket you would like to pin, open that ticket.
Step 3: Click [PIN TO DASHBOARD] button located under the “Ticket Information (Edit Mode)” title.

Catt Lop TAR ticket Action Notes. © Documents,

B Ticket Information (EDIT MODE)

Figure 12: Pin to Dashboard (Ticket Record)

Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 8

@SMART

Once you have pinned a ticket it will display on the My Tickets Dashboard. If the ticket has multiple
property inspection addresses, then the multiple Ticket Records tied to that Ticket Skey will display in

the My Tickets Dashboard.

3.1.2. Unpin Tickets from My Tickets Dashboard

Step 1: Identify a ticket you would like to unpin to the My Tickets Dashboard.
Step 2: Once you have identified a ticket you would like to unpin, open that ticket.
Step 3: Click [UNPIN FROM DASHBOARD] button located under the “Ticket Information (Edit Mode)”

title.
a&s Customer Service - Ticket No. 102622

natn, Fett Acton at _ Once

Ticket 102622 (t) B Ticket Information (EDIT MODE)
FHA Case # az Y | Loan Progra i Non FHA A | Loan #
Figure 13: Unpin from Dashboard (Ticket Record)

Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

Once you have unpinned a ticket it will no longer display in the My Tickets Dashboard. If the ticket has
multiple property inspection addresses, then the multiple Ticket Records tied to that Ticket Skey will no

longer display in the My Tickets Dashboard.

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 9

®SMART

3.2 Supervisor Inbox

The Supervisor Inbox displays all tickets with an open status. To open the Supervisor Inbox, click [My
DASHBOARD] from the top Navigation menu and select [SUPERVISOR INBOX] from the dropdown.

Figure 14: Supervisor Inbox

To open a Customer Service Ticket Record, click on the ticket number. To go back to the Supervisor
Inbox page, click on the “Back to Supervisor Inbox” button.

3.2.1 Change Disposition

Step 1: Inside the Supervisor Inbox, click on the [CHANGE Disposition] link from the Actions

column.
B Change Disposition (EDIT MODE)

Ticket Information
Ticket #

Figure 15: Change Disposition (Edit Mode)

Step 2: Select a new disposition from the Disposition dropdown menu. Options in Table 1.
Step 3: Click [SAve].
Step 4: From the confirmation pop-up, click [SUBMIT].

Disposition Type Queue

Refer to NSC (Servicing) Servicing Queue

Refer to NSC (Loss Mitigation) Loss Queue

Refer to NSC (Other) Other Queue

Refer to NSC (HECM Assigned) HECM Queue

Refer to NSC (Sec Held) Sec Held Queue

Refer to NSC (HECM Endorsed) HECM Endorsed Queue
Referred for GTR Approval GTR Approval Queue

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 10

@SMART

Disposition Type Queue

HECM (CM)

HECM (CM) Queue

HECM (Assigned Servicing)

HECM (Assigned Servicing) Queue

HECM (Endorsed)

HECM Endorsed Queue

Refer to Other HUD/HOC

Servicing Queue

Refer to Housing Counseling

Servicing Queue

Refer to Lender

Servicing Queue

Refer to Servicing

Servicing Queue

Controlled Correspondence

Servicing Queue

Handled by Contractor

Servicing Queue

Referred to (800) CALLFHA

Servicing Queue

Resource Center

Servicing Queue

Transferred to BAC Escalation Team

Servicing Queue

Claim Block

Servicing Queue

RQST Third Party Authorization

Servicing Queue

Pending Concessions

Servicing Queue

NSC Referred to Contractor

Servicing Queue

Handled by NSC

Servicing Queue

Escalation

Servicing Queue

Transferred to WF Escalation Team

Servicing Queue

Table 1: Disposition Types

SMART Customer Service Module | Disposition Workflow

Customer Service Is the
Rep. creates new disposition type

ticket and selects in the Disposition
disposition type Type box?

Disposition Type:
Ticket enters the
Customer Service

Rep’s My Ticket
. Refer to NSC (Other) Dashboard

. Refer to NSC (HECM Assigned)
. Refer to NSC (Sec Held)

. Refer to NSC (Servicing)
. Refer to NSC (Loss Mitigation)

Supervisor
selects the
disposition and
clicks save

Supervisor clicks
on the Change
Disposition link

* Is that
Ticket enters the correct
Supervisor Inbox disposition?

Ticket gets auto
assigned, leaves
Supervisor inbox
and enters into
new assignee My
Ticket Dashboard

Supervisor clicks
on the Auto
Assign link

. Referred for GTR Approval

1
2
3
4
5
6. Refer to NSC (HECM Endorsed)
7
8. HECM (CM)

9

1

. uenee a Start bX] List of
. HECM (Assigned Servicing) LEGEND: —— process Disposition Email sent
0. HECM (Endorsed) EMAIL types !

to Assignee

Figure 16: Disposition Workflow

The disposition column will update to display the new edit. Changing the disposition from the
Supervisor Inbox will enter the ticket into the respective round robin queen and assign to a new agent
from the respective round robin queue. The ticket can only enter the round robin queue through the
Supervisor Inbox. The new designee will receive an email.

USER MANUAL | HUD.CSTEAMLEAD | JUNE 10, 2019 | 11


@®SMART

3.2.2 Auto-Assign

Inside the Supervisor Inbox, click on the [AUTO-AssIGN] link from the Actions column. A pop-up will
display asking you to choose a New Designee from a drop down.

Figure 17: Auto-Assign Ticket

S