eeeeesaaeesseeeeeeeessaaaasseseeeeeseaaa 34
Figure 72: Mortgage Release Search Screen ButtOns............ccsssssscccccecceeeeseeeeceeeeesaaeeeeeeeeeeessaaaaeeeseeeeseaaa 35
Figure 73: Mortgage Release Tab (Partial Claim) ............:::c:ssssssessssssssssssseeseeeessesesesseeseesessesesssesesssssesseae 36
Figure 74: Active Mortgage Release Activity (Partial Claim)............::::ccscssssssssssssssssssesssssssssesssesssssssssssees 36
Figure 75: Mortgage Release Management (Partial Claim)............:::::csssssssssssssssssesssesssssssssssssessssssssssseees 37
Figure 76: Check Search SCre@N .....ccccccsssssssseeccceeceaeeeeseeeeeeeeeaeeeeseeeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeesseeeeeeeesaaaaaeseeeeeeeaaa 38
Figure 77: Disbursement Checks (Partial Claim) ...........:ccccccsssessssssssssssssseseeseeeseesessseseseessssssesseeesessssseseaes 39
Figure 78: Release Checks (Partial Claim) ..........::::ccsssssssssssssssssssssseesseseseessesseseseesssssesssessssessseesessesssssaees 39
Figure 79: Data RefreSN .........ccccccccccccccceeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaseeeeeeeeeeeesaseeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeseeeeeeessaaaeaeeeeeeeseaaa 40
Figure 80: Last Data Refresh ..........cccccccsssssssecceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeeeeeeseaeeeesseeeeeeesaaaaaaeeseeeeeesaaa 40
Figure 81: Trial Balance .........ccccccccccccccceeseeeeeceeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeessseeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeessseeseeesaaaaeaseseeeeeseaaa 40
Figure 82: Summary Of ACCOUNT Changes .........cccccsssssseecccccccsesesseeeeeeeeeseaeseeeeeeeeessaseesseeeeeeeessaaaeseeeseeeeseaaa 41
Figure 83: Trial Balance SUMMALY.........:::cccceccccccceeeeeseeeceeeeeeaseeeeeeeeeeeeesaseeeeeeeeeeeesaeeessseeeeeeeesaaaesseseeeeeseaaa 41
Figure 84: USSGL ACCOUNL...........cccecccccsescccceeeeeecaeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeseeseessseseessaeeeeeessauseesseeueeesauseessaaases 41
Figure 85: Treasury Report on Receivables and Debt Collection Activities Report ............cccccesseeeeeeeeeeeees 42
Figure 86: Ticket Search SCr@N ......ccccccsssssssecccceeceeeeeseeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeeseeeeeeeesaauaaseseeeeeseaaa 43
Figure 87: Transaction Search R@SUItS ..........ccccccccssssssseecceeeeeseeessseeeeeeeesaaeeseeeeeeeeeesaeeeseseeeeeeessaaaeaeeeeeeeeseaaa 44
Figure 88: Pay.Gov Transaction HiStOry..........cccccssesccccssesccccseeecccaeeeceesseeseeesueeeeeeaeeeeessueeseesaeeeeeesaeeseeesaaases 44
Figure 89: LOAN TransactiONn Tab ..........cccssesccccccccceeeessseeeeeeeeeaseeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeasseeeeeeessaaaaseeseeeeeeeaaa 44
Figure 90: SPS — Unprocessed CHecKS .........cccccccccssssssseecceeeeeaeeeeseeeeeeeessaeeeeseeeeeeesaaeeesseeeeeeessauaasseseeeeeeeaaa 45
Figure 91: SPS — Checks Submitted / Checks Status .............cccccssssscccceceeeeesssceeecececeeessssseeeeeeeceseestsaseeeeees 45
Figure 92: Ticket Search SCr@N ......cccccsssssssseecccceeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeaseeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeesaaaaeseseeeeeeeaaa 46
Figure 93: Customer Service MOUIe ...........ccccccccssssssseeccececcaaeesseeeeeeeessaeseeeeeeeeeesaaeeseeeeeeeessaaaaaeeeseeeeseaaa 48
Figure 94: View/Edit Ticket Detail ............cccccccccccccesssssssseeecceeeesessaeeececcesecessaeeeeeececeeeseaaeeeeececeeessnsaseeeeees 48
Figure 95: VieW Call LOG .........ccccccccccccccseeeseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeseseeeeeeesaaaaeseseeeeeeeaaa 48
Figure 96: View Ticket ACtiON.........cccccccsssssesecccceeceeeeeeseeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeseseeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeesseeeeeeesaaaaaseseeeeeseaaa 49
Figure 97: ViCW NOtS...........cccccccsseeecccseecceseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeseeeeesaeeseeesauusessseaseesauseeesaaages 49
Figure 98: ViEW DOCUMENTS ...........ccccccsssecccceeeececaeeeeccaeseeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeesseeeeeeaeeseeesaeuseesauausessauseeesaaases 49
Figure 99: View Borrower HIStory ...........cccccssseccceeeecccseesccccaeeeeceaeeeeeesseeseeeseeeeeesaeueeeessuseesseeseeesaueeeeesaaages 50
Figure 100: Navigation Menu LINKS ............ccccccccccssssssseecceceeeaeeeseseeeeeeeesaeeseeeeeeeeeesaeeesseseeeeeessauaasseeseeeeseaea 51
Figure 101: Example User Information (Edit Mode) ...........::cccsssssssssssssssssessseeeeesesssessssesssssesssssssssessseseee 51
Figure 102: Example User Role Options ...........ccccccsssssecccccceceeeesseeeeeeceesaaeeeeeeeeeeeessaseesseeeeeeeessaeaeseeeeeeeeeaaa 51
Figure 103: Landing Page...........ccccccccccssssseesecceeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeeeseeeeeeesaaaaeseeseeeeesaaaa 52
Figure 104: Tech Support Tab Open .........cccccccccccccsssssseecceeeesaeeeseseeeeeeeesaeeesseeeeeeeeesaeeesseeeeeeeessaaaaaeeeseeeeeeaaa 52

SMART USER MANUAL | LSC.READONLYHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | iv

@SMART

Figure 105: Tech Support POPUD ...........cccccccccccccceeeesseeeeeeeeeeaseeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeessseeeeeeessaaaaaeeeseeeeseaea 52
Figure 106: PopUp Chat Window ...........cccccccccccccccessssseeeceeeeeaeeeseeeeeeeeeesaeeeeeeseeeeeessaeeeesseeeeeeessaaaaseeeeeeeeseaaa 53
Tables

Table 1: Loan Search Fields ...........cccccccssseccccesecceceesecceceeeececeueccecauseceesaeseceesueeceeeaeeceeseuueceesueeceesaueeeesagasss 10
Table 2: Data Table BUttOns............ccccccccccccessecceceesecceceeeececsueeccecaueceesaueceesueeeceeauuceesueeeceseugeeeesauaeeeeeugasss 12
Table 3: Bankruptcy Search Fields...........cccccccccccccssssseeeeeeeeesaeaeeeeeeeeeeeesaaeeseeeeeeeeeesaaeesseeeeeeessaaeaeseeeeeeeesaaa 27
Table 4: Data Table BUttOns............cccccccccccccesecceceesecceceeeececeueeccecaueccecaueeceesueueeesauaeceesueecessugceeseueeeesugasss 28
Table 5: Foreclosure Search Fields ............cccsccccccessecceceeececeeeccccausecceseeeeceeeueecceeaueceeseueeceseueeceesaueeeesegasss 31
Table 6: Data Table BUttOns............cccccccccccccssecceceesecceceeeececsueecceeaueccesaueceesueeesecauaecesseguecessueeesesaueceeeegasss 32
Table 7: Mortgage Release Search Fields ............cccssssssccccceecaeeesseeeceeeeessaeeseeeeeeeeeseeeesseeeeeeeessaaeaeseeeeeeeesaaa 34
Table 8: Data Table BUttOns............cccccccccccccssecceceesecceceeeececseeecceceuseceesaueceesueueeeeauaecessuueceeeueeceesauseeeesagasss 36
Table 9: Check Search Fields ...........ccccccceccccessecceccesecceceeeececeueccecauecceceeseceeeueeccesaueceesueuecessugeeeesaueeeesugasss 39
Table 10: Transaction Search Fields .............cccccccssscceceseecccceseececaeseccesaeseceesueuccesaeeceeseeueceesueeceesaueceeeagasss 43
Table 11: Ticket Search Fields .............ccccccccessecceceesecceceeeececeueeccecaueccesaueeceeauaeceeseueceeeueueceseueeeeeseueceeeegasss 47

SMART USER MANUAL | LSC.READONLYHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | v

@®SMART

Document History

Version Date

Description
Original release.

Updated release.

No changes made.

Updated release; Added PMM, Cash
Management, CRM, etc.

1.0 3/12/2018

1.34.0 | 12/14/2018
1.34.0 06/10/2019
1.43.0 | 12/20/2019
1.43.0 06/02/2020

No changes made.

SMART USER MANUAL | LSC.READONLYHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | vi


@SMART

1 Solution Summary

This manual is designed to guide Lenders through the use of the Single-Family Mortgage Asset Recovery
Technology (SMART) System.

1.1 Features

The Single-Family Mortgage Asset Recovery Technology (SMART) System is comprised of individual
modules designed to assist the user in searching for specific loan information and performing related
functions. The modules currently available include the following:

Loan Module: Query and review loan information at a detailed level, add new loan records to
the system, and edit existing loan information.

Servicing Module: Assign mortgage servicing templates to individual loans, track the status of
each servicing template, and generate the corresponding servicing forms and letters.
Bankruptcy Module: Maintain, track, and edit bankruptcy information for individual loan
records.

Foreclosure Module: Manage loan records in the foreclosure process. Module provides a
timeline of the required foreclosure steps and tracks the scheduled foreclosure activity vs. the
completed foreclosure activity.

Mortgage Release Module: Initiate the loan release process for satisfied loans, track the release
status, and generate the corresponding release forms and letters.

Cash Management Module: Track and manage incoming payments from Pay.Gov, submit
disbursement checks, search for transactions and review the TROR and Trial Balance reports.
Customer Service Module: Create, view, and manage tickets. Create and edit call logs and ticket
actions.

Maintenance Module: Manage user account, reset user passwords, and update ticket round
robin.

SMART USER MANUAL | LSC.READONLYHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 1

@SMART

2 Getting Started

2.1 Software Version
To access the SMART web application, open your web browser and go to: https://smart.hudnsc.org.

2.2 Solution Requirements
Users must have the following to use the SMART System:
e Screen Resolution 1920x1080 optimal
e =Internet Connection
e Web Browser (IE, Chrome, Firefox)
e Avalid user name, email address, and password
e Adobe Acrobat Reader or other .pdf reader (recommended)

Users may not use the following to access the SMART System:
e Mobile device with a screen size of 760px or less

As a web-based application, SMART is accessed through a web browser, and is not “installed” onto any
user’s computer.

2.3 Logging On
Once your SMART user profile has been created and approved, you may begin using the site. To Login,
follow the steps outlined below.

Step1: Toaccess the SMART web application, open your web browser and go to

https://smart.hudnsc.org.

Password

Unauthorized Access Warning

Figure 1: Landing Page

Step 2: Input your User Name. Input your Password. @®SMART
Step 3: Click [LOGIN]. A pop-up will appear to initiate
setting up Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). What type of device are you adding?
Click [START SETUP]. © Moniie phone recoumencen
Landline
Step 4: Select Mobile Phone or Landline and click
[CONTINUE].

Figure 2: MFA Phone Set-Up

SMART USER MANUAL | LSC.READONLYHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 2

@®SMART

Step 5: Enter your phone number, click the box to verify the phone number, and click [CONTINUE].

®SMART

Enter your phone number

United States A

+41

ex: (201) 234-5678
[2] You entered [EEN 's this the correct number?

Figure 3: MFA Phone Set Up

Step6: Verify the ownership of your phone. To get a phone call verification, select [CALL ME]. To
get a text verification, select [TEXT ME]. Both options will provide you with a 6-digit code.
Enter in the code and click [VERIFY]. When verified, click [CONTINUE].

@®SMART

Verify Ownership of

1. We can call or text you with a verification code.

} came | °r Textsent

2. Enter your 6-digit code:

“_ ¥
| sack

Figure 4: MFA Phone Verification

Step 7: Verify your settings on the My Settings & Devices page then click [CONTINUE TO LOGIN].

@®SMART

a

bx. 867539

(Q_ Remember me for 60 days

@SMART (=!

Call Me

Enter a Passcode

(4 Remember me for 60 days

Enrollment successful! This is the Duo login prompt that you'll normally
see when logging in.

Enter a passcode from a text.

Dismiss Dismiss Text me new codes

Figure 5: Multi-Factor Authentication

Note! When you have checked the [REMEMBER ME FOR 60 DAyYs] checkbox, this bypasses the 2 factor log in for 60 days.

SMART USER MANUAL | LSC.READONLYHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 3

@SMART

Step 8: Select either [CALL ME] or [ENTER A PASSCODE].

Step 9: Selecting [CALL ME] will prompt the system to call your phone. Follow the instructions in
the phone call and you will be redirected to your default page.

Step 10: Select [ENTER A PASSCODE] and click on [TEXT ME NEw CobEs] at the bottom. This will prompt
the system to send a text message to your phone containing a 6-digit code. Enter in the
code and click login. You will be redirected to your default page, logging you in.

The first time you log in you will be asked to reset your password and input three Security Questions.

@SMART

O First Time Password Reset

Answer 1

‘Securty Question 3 ‘Select One x|

Figure 6: Setting up Security Questions Page

Enter in a new password and all three questions and answers and click [UPDATE]. After clicking update,
you will be taken to your default page.

2.4 Solution Menu

After you have successfully logged into SMART your default page is the My Dashboard Page.

Loan FMA Cane # Loan # 8 . Closed Box # Orginal Prin Ba Updated by Updated Date E Loan States

6B Top 20 Most Recent Loans

moo = Ec

Figure 7: Default Page

From the Dashboard page you can access every point in the site needed via the Top Navigation Menu.
From left to right, the options are: My Dashboard, Loan, Bankruptcy, Foreclosure, Mortgage Release,
Cash Management, Customer Service, User Information, and Role.

SMART USER MANUAL | LSC.READONLYHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 4

@SMART

2.4.1. My Dashboard

The default page you come to after you have logged into SMART is the [My DASHBOARD] page. Under the
tab [My DASHBOARD] you have one option: My Loans.

2.4.2 Loan

The [LOAN] tab directs the user to the Loan Module in SMART. Here you have one option: Search.

2.4.3. Bankruptcy

The [BANKRUPTCY] tab directs the user to the Bankruptcy Module. Here you have one option: Search.

2.4.4 Foreclosure
The [FORECLOSURE] tab directs the user to the Foreclosure Module. Here you have one option: Search.

2.4.55 Mortgage Release
The [MORTGAGE RELEASE] tab directs the user to the Mortgage Release Module. Here you have two
options: Mortgage Search and Check Search.

2.4.6 Cash Management
Under [CASH MANAGEMENT] you have four options: Trial Balance, TROR Report, Transaction Search, and
SPS.

2.4.7. Customer Service
The [CUSTOMER SERVICE] tab directs the user to the Customer Service Module. Here you have one option:
Ticket Search.

2.4.8 User Information and Roles

Select your user name to view and update your personal identification and contact information. You
may also change your password and security questions. From the [ROLE] drop-down menu, select the
role in which to view the SMART System.

SMART USER MANUAL | LSC.READONLYHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 5

@SMART

2.5 Changing Password

To comply with security policies requiring periodic modification to all access passwords, SMART includes
the Change Password functionality on the My Account page. Follow the steps below to change your

current password.

Step 2: Scroll down the User Information (Edit Mode) page to the Manage Password header.

Step1: From the top Navigation Menu, click your User Name.

Manage Password:

Figure 8: Manage Password

Step 3: Input your current password. Password must contain at least:

Step 4: Input your new password.
Twelve alphanumeric characters

One special character
One uppercase letter

One lowercase letter

One number

Step 6: Click [SAVE] at the bottom of the page. 1

Step5: Re-enter your new password to confirm accuracy.

446686

The user is required to change their password every 30 days. The system maintains a password history,
so that 24 passwords cannot be reused.

If the user logs into SMART after their password is expired between 30 days and 90 days from their last
password change, they will be redirected to change their password. If the user has not logged on for 90
days, their account will be disabled. In order to reactivate their account, they will need to contact the
Help Desk. For information on how to contact the Help Desk, see Section 14: Getting Help.

SMART USER MANUAL | LSC.READONLYHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 6

2.5.1 Forgot Password (Recover Password)

S

C

SMART

To retrieve a lost password, go to the SMART Login Page and click [FORGOT PASsSworD].

@®SMART

Username

Password

_ Unauthorized Access Warning

This warning banner provides privacy and security notices consistent with
applicable federal laws, directives, and other federal guidance for accessing this
Government system, which includes all devices/storage media attached to this
system. This system is provided for Government-authorized use only.
Unauthorized or improper use of this system is prohibited and may result in
disciplinary action and/or civil and criminal penalties. At any time, and for any
lawful Government purpose, the government may monitor, record, and audit
your system usage and/or intercept, search and seize any communication or
data transiting or stored on this system. Therefore, you have no reasonable
expectation of privacy. Any communication or data transiting or stored on this
system may be disclosed or used for any lawful Government purpose.

Forgot Password Login

Figure 9: Login Page — Forgot Password

Password Reset

Work Email Address

Figure 10. Forgot Password Page

The user is prompted to input a valid email address and select one security challenge question. Enter in

the work email address and click [SUBMIT].

If the user is registered to access SMART, an email is sent to their validated email address containing a
temporary password to use to access their account. If the user is not registered, the user is prompted to

complete the registration process.

2.6 Exit Solution

To end your SMART session, click [LOGOUT]. Be sure to [UPDATE] any work prior to exiting the system.

SMART USER MANUAL | LSC.READONLYHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 7

@SMART

3 Using My Dashboard

3.1 My Loans

After you have successfully logged into SMART your default page is the My Dashboard Page. The default
tab of My Dashboard is the My Loans Dashboard.

6B Top 20 Most Recent Loans

Coc = ac

Figure 11: My Loans Dashboard

Note: Each data table throughout the SMART system can generate reports in Excel, PDF or Print. The
Excel file is downloaded to your computer. Both PDF and Print opens in a new tab. You can also use the
search bar on any column to filter the data table results.

To open a Loan Record, click on the Loan Skey, FHA Case #, or Loan #.

If you have never pinned a loan to the My Loans tab of My Dashboard, then you will only see the Top 20
Most Recent Loans. If you have pinned a loan to the My Loans tab, then you will see all the loans you
have pinned and the Top 20 Most Recent Loans.

3.1.1 Pin Loan to My Loans Dashboard
Step 1: Identify a loan you would like to pin to the My Loans Dashboard.
Step 2: Once you have identified a loan you would like to pin, open that loan record.
Step 3: — Click [PIN TO DASHBOARD] button located in the top right corner of that loan record.

+ Goan Record - HECM - Insured

Figure 12: Pin to Dashboard

Step 4: On the Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].
Once you have pinned a loan it will display on the My Loans Dashboard. If the loan has multiple

property inspection addresses, then the multiple Loan Records tied to that Loan Skey will display in the
My Loans Dashboard.

SMART USER MANUAL | LSC.READONLYHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 8

@SMART

3.1.2 | Unpin Loan from My Loans Dashboard
Step 1: Identify a loan you would like to unpin to the My Loans Dashboard.
Step 2: Once you have identified a loan you would like to unpin, open that loan record.
Step 3: = Click [UNPIN FROM DASHBOARD] button located in the top right corner of that loan record.

~ Loan Record - HECM - Insured G5

Figure 13: Unpin from Dashboard
Step 4: Onthe Confirmation Pop-up, click [SUBMIT].
Once you have unpinned a loan it will no longer display in the My Loans Dashboard. If the loan has

multiple property inspection addresses, then the multiple Loan Records tied to that Loan Skey will no
longer display in the My Loans Dashboard.

SMART USER MANUAL | LSC.READONLYHECM | VERSION 1.43.0 | JUNE 2, 2020 | 9

@SMART

4 Using the Loan Module

4.1 Search

Loans can be retrieved through various combinations of the search criteria available on the Loan Search
Screen.

Q Loan Search Screen
Search Database SMART PRODUCTION DATABASE
+ Borrower Name: Loan Create Date >=

FHA Case ®: Loan Program:

Loan Skey: Label Printed: * | Property Address:

Loan #: Loan Status: + | Property Ci